---
title: "Performance Report Views"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-ide-debug"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "reports, profiling tools"
  - "profiling tools reports"
  - "profiling tools, report views"
ms.assetid: 3e84e513-dc64-40bb-b385-03281f28b519
caps.latest.revision: 28
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# Performance Report Views
This section provides reference information for the reports and views of [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../VS_csharp/includes/vsprvs_md.md)] Profiling Tools. Views of profiling data files are displayed in the [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../VS_csharp/includes/vs_current_short_md.md)] integrated development environmentIDE. Reports are generated by the [VSPerfReport](../VS_csharp/vsperfreport.md) command-line tool.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Profiler Common Data Views](../VS_csharp/common-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are common to all profiling methods.  
  
 [Profiler Sampling Method Data Views](../VS_csharp/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [Profiler Instrumentation Method Data Views](../VS_csharp/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
 [Profiler .NET Memory Data Views](../VS_csharp/.net-memory-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that include .NET memory data.  
  
 [Resource Contention Data Views](../VS_csharp/resource-contention-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method.  
  
 [Thread Execution Data Views](../VS_csharp/concurrency-visualizer.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method and that include thread execution data.  
  
 [Interaction View](../VS_csharp/tier-interactions-view.md)  
 Reference information for the Interaction view and report of profiling data files that include tier interaction data.  
  
## See Also  
 [Analyzing Profiling Tools Data](../VS_csharp/analyzing-performance-tools-data.md)