---
title: "Walkthrough: Implementing Futures"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "implementing futures [Concurrency Runtime]"
  - "futures, implementing [Concurrency Runtime]"
ms.assetid: 82ea75cc-aaec-4452-b10d-8abce0a87e5b
caps.latest.revision: 23
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# Walkthrough: Implementing Futures
This topic shows how to implement futures in your application. The topic demonstrates how to combine existing functionality in the Concurrency Runtime into something that does more.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  This topic illustrates the concept of futures for demonstration purposes. We recommend that you use [std::future](../VS_csharp/future-class.md) or [concurrency::task](../VS_csharp/task-class--concurrency-runtime-.md) when you require an asynchronous task that computes a value for later use.  
  
 A *task* is a computation that can be decomposed into additional, more fine-grained, computations. A *future* is an asynchronous task that computes a value for later use.  
  
 To implement futures, this topic defines the `async_future` class. The `async_future` class uses these components of the Concurrency Runtime: the [concurrency::task_group](../VS_csharp/task_group-class.md) class and the [concurrency::single_assignment](../VS_csharp/single_assignment-class.md) class. The `async_future` class uses the `task_group` class to compute a value asynchronously and the `single_assignment` class to store the result of the computation. The constructor of the `async_future` class takes a work function that computes the result, and the `get` method retrieves the result.  
  
### To implement the async_future class  
  
1.  Declare a template class named `async_future` that is parameterized on the type of the resulting computation. Add `public` and `private` sections to this class.  
  
     [!code[concrt-futures#2](../VS_csharp/codesnippet/CPP/walkthrough--implementing-futures_1.cpp)]  
  
2.  In the `private` section of the `async_future` class, declare a `task_group` and a `single_assignment` data member.  
  
     [!code[concrt-futures#3](../VS_csharp/codesnippet/CPP/walkthrough--implementing-futures_2.cpp)]  
  
3.  In the `public` section of the `async_future` class, implement the constructor. The constructor is a template that is parameterized on the work function that computes the result. The constructor asynchronously executes the work function in the `task_group` data member and uses the [concurrency::send](../VS_csharp/send-function.md) function to write the result to the `single_assignment` data member.  
  
     [!code[concrt-futures#4](../VS_csharp/codesnippet/CPP/walkthrough--implementing-futures_3.cpp)]  
  
4.  In the `public` section of the `async_future` class, implement the destructor. The destructor waits for the task to finish.  
  
     [!code[concrt-futures#5](../VS_csharp/codesnippet/CPP/walkthrough--implementing-futures_4.cpp)]  
  
5.  In the `public` section of the `async_future` class, implement the `get` method. This method uses the [concurrency::receive](../VS_csharp/receive-function.md) function to retrieve the result of the work function.  
  
     [!code[concrt-futures#6](../VS_csharp/codesnippet/CPP/walkthrough--implementing-futures_5.cpp)]  
  
## Example  
  
### Description  
 The following example shows the complete `async_future` class and an example of its usage. The `wmain` function creates a [std::vector](../VS_csharp/vector-class.md) object that contains 10,000 random integer values. It then uses `async_future` objects to find the smallest and largest values that are contained in the `vector` object.  
  
### Code  
 [!code[concrt-futures#1](../VS_csharp/codesnippet/CPP/walkthrough--implementing-futures_6.cpp)]  
  
### Comments  
 This example produces the following output:  
  
 **smallest: 0**  
**largest:  9999**  
**average:  4981** The example uses the `async_future::get` method to retrieve the results of the computation. The `async_future::get` method waits for the computation to finish if the computation is still active.  
  
## Robust Programming  
 To extend the `async_future` class to handle exceptions that are thrown by the work function, modify the `async_future::get` method to call the [concurrency::task_group::wait](../VS_csharp/task_group--wait-method.md) method. The `task_group::wait` method throws any exceptions that were generated by the work function.  
  
 The following example shows the modified version of the `async_future` class. The `wmain` function uses a `try`-`catch` block to print the result of the `async_future` object or to print the value of the exception that is generated by the work function.  
  
 [!code[concrt-futures-with-eh#1](../VS_csharp/codesnippet/CPP/walkthrough--implementing-futures_7.cpp)]  
  
 This example produces the following output:  
  
 **caught exception: error** For more information about the exception handling model in the Concurrency Runtime, see [Exception Handling in the Concurrency Runtime](../VS_csharp/exception-handling-in-the-concurrency-runtime.md).  
  
## Compiling the Code  
 Copy the example code and paste it in a Visual Studio project, or paste it in a file that is named `futures.cpp` and then run the following command in a Visual Studio Command Prompt window.  
  
 **cl.exe /EHsc futures.cpp**  
  
## See Also  
 [Concurrency Runtime Walkthroughs](../VS_csharp/concurrency-runtime-walkthroughs.md)   
 [Exception Handling in the Concurrency Runtime](../VS_csharp/exception-handling-in-the-concurrency-runtime.md)   
 [task_group Class](../VS_csharp/task_group-class.md)   
 [single_assignment Class](../VS_csharp/single_assignment-class.md)