---
title: "Column Statistics Profile Request Options (Data Profiling Task)"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 07/04/2016
ms.prod: sql-server-2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - integration-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 87205984-507a-49f3-b27c-36a0075c234d
caps.latest.revision: 22
manager: jhubbard
---
# Column Statistics Profile Request Options (Data Profiling Task)
Use the **Request Properties** pane of the **Profile Requests** page to set the options for the **Column Statistics Profile Request** selected in the requests pane. A Column Statistics profile reports statistics such as minimum, maximum, average, and standard deviation for numeric columns, and minimum and maximum for **datetime** columns. This profile can help you identify problems in your data such as invalid dates. For example, you profile a column of historical dates and discover a maximum date that is in the future.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  The options described in this topic appear on the **Profile Requests page** of the **Data Profiling Task Editor**. For more information about this page of the editor, see [Data Profiling Task Editor (Profile Requests Page)](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Data-Profiling-Task-Editor--Profile-Requests-Page-.md).  
  
 For more information about how to use the Data Profiling Task, see [Setup of the Data Profiling Task](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Setup-of-the-Data-Profiling-Task.md). For more information about how to use the Data Profile Viewer to analyze the output of the Data Profiling Task, see [Data Profile Viewer](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Data-Profile-Viewer.md).  
  
## Request Properties Options  
 For a **Column Statistics Profile Request**, the **Request Properties** pane displays the following groups of options:  
  
-   **Data**, which includes the **TableOrView** and **Column** options  
  
-   **General**  
  
### Data Options  
 **ConnectionManager**  
 Select the existing [!INCLUDE[vstecado](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/vstecado_md.md)] connection manager that uses the .NET Data Provider for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] (SqlClient) to connect to the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] database that contains the table or view to be profiled.  
  
 **TableOrView**  
 Select the existing table or view that contains the column to be profiled.  
  
 For more information, see the section, "TableorView Options," in this topic.  
  
 **Column**  
 Select the existing column to be profiled. Select **(\*)** to profile all columns.  
  
 For more information, see the section, "Column Options," in this topic.  
  
#### TableOrView Options  
 **Schema**  
 Specifies the schema to which the selected table belongs. This option is read-only.  
  
 **Table**  
 Displays the name of the selected table. This option is read-only.  
  
#### Column Options  
 **IsWildCard**  
 Specifies whether the **(\*)** wildcard has been selected. This option is set to **True** if you have selected **(\*)** to profile all columns. It is **False** if you have selected an individual column to be profiled. This option is read-only.  
  
 **ColumnName**  
 Displays the name of the selected column. This option is blank if you have selected **(\*)** to profile all columns. This option is read-only.  
  
 **StringCompareOptions**  
 This option does not apply to the Column Statistics Profile.  
  
### General Options  
 **RequestID**  
 Type a descriptive name to identify this profile request. Typically, you do not have to change the autogenerated value.  
  
## See Also  
 [Data Profiling Task Editor (General Page)](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Data-Profiling-Task-Editor--General-Page-.md)   
 [Single Table Quick Profile Form (Data Profiling Task)](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Single-Table-Quick-Profile-Form--Data-Profiling-Task-.md)