---
title: "Script Task Editor (Script Page)"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 06/29/2016
ms.prod: sql-server-2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - integration-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 93da0e0d-83f5-406d-b144-4cce216571cb
caps.latest.revision: 41
manager: jhubbard
---
# Script Task Editor (Script Page)
Use the **Script** page of the **Script Task Editor** dialog box to set script properties and specify variables that can be accessed by the script.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  In [!INCLUDE[ssISversion10](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/ssISversion10_md.md)] and later versions, all scripts are precompiled. In earlier versions, you set a **PrecompileScriptIntoBinaryCode** property to specify that the script was precompiled.  
  
 To learn more about the Script task, see [Script Task](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Script-Task.md) and [Configuring the Script Task in the Script Task Editor](assetId:///232de0c9-b24d-4c38-861d-6c1f4a75bdf3). To learn about programming the Script task, see [Extending the Package with the Script Task](assetId:///911e6d26-a6fd-4fc3-a111-bf5f048e9bff).  
  
## Options  
 **ScriptLanguage**  
 Select the scripting language for the task, either [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/msCoName_md.md)] Visual Basic or [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/msCoName_md.md)] Visual C#.  
  
 After you have created a script for the task, you cannot change the value of the **ScriptLanguage** property.  
  
 To set the default scripting language for the Script task, use the **Scripting language** option on **General** page of the **Options** dialog box. For more information, see [General Page](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/General-Page.md).  
  
 **EntryPoint**  
 Specify the method that the [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssISnoversion_md.md)] runtime calls as the entry point into the code of the Script task. The specified method must be in the **ScriptMain** class of the [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/msCoName_md.md)] [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/vsprvs_md.md)] Tools for Applications (VSTA) project The **ScriptMain class** is the default class generated by the script templates.  
  
 If you change the name of the method in the VSTA project, you must change the value of the **EntryPoint** property.  
  
 **ReadOnlyVariables**  
 Type a comma-separated list of read-only variables that are available to the script, or click the ellipsis (**…**) button and select the variables in the **Select variables** dialog box.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Variable names are case sensitive.  
  
 **ReadWriteVariables**  
 Type a comma-separated list of read/write variables that are available to the script, or click the ellipsis (**…**) button and select the variables in the **Select variables** dialog box.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Variable names are case sensitive.  
  
 **Edit Script**  
 Opens the VSTA IDE where you can create or modify the script.  
  
## See Also  
 [Integration Services Error and Message Reference](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Integration-Services-Error-and-Message-Reference.md)   
 [General Page](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/General-Page.md)   
 [Script Task Editor (General Page)](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Script-Task-Editor--General-Page-.md)   
 [Expressions Page](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Expressions-Page.md)   
 [Script Task Examples](assetId:///b0dd77ee-ee11-4cd9-87aa-61dd67f2fe1c)   
 [Integration Services (SSIS) Variables](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Integration-Services--SSIS--Variables.md)   
 [Add, Delete, Change Scope of User-Defined Variable in a Package](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/Add--Delete--Change-Scope-of-User-Defined-Variable-in-a-Package.md)