---
title: SQL Server R Services
ms.custom: 
  - SQL2016_New_Updated
ms.date: 07/04/2016
ms.prod: sql-server-2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - r-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: ba1dea65-40ea-484a-b767-53680c954934
manager: paulettm
---
# SQL Server R Services
[!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] provides a platform for developing intelligent applications that uncover new insights. You can use the rich and powerful R language and the many open source packages to create models and generate predictions using your [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] data. Because [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] integrates the R language with [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)], you can keep analytics close to the data and eliminate the costs and security risks associated with data movement.  
  
 [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] combines R with a comprehensive set of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] tools and technologies that offer superior performance, security, reliability and manageability. You can deploy R solutions using convenient, familiar  tools, and your production applications can call the R runtime and retrieve predictions and visuals using [!INCLUDE[tsql](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/tsql_md.md)]. With Enterprise Edition, you also get the [ScaleR](http://www.revolutionanalytics.com/revolution-r-enterprise-scaler) libraries to overcome R’s inherent performance and scale limitations.  
  
 In [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)], [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] is comprised of server and client components.  
  
-   **R Services (In-Database):** Install this feature during [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] setup to enable secure execution of R scripts on the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] computer.  
  
     When you select this feature, extensions  are installed in the database engine to support execution of R scripts, and a new service is created, the [!INCLUDE[rsql_launchpad](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_launchpad_md.md)], to manages all communications between the R runtime and the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] instance.  
  
-   **Enhanced R packages** When you install either the in-database server or the standalone server, you automatically get the latest R providers and packages, including an open source distribution of the R language and R tools, connectivity and performance libraries optimized for ssNoversion, and a set of R packages that can run in parallel, execute in remote compute contexts, and more.  
  
     You can install these same R tools on a data science workstation to test and develop your solutions, and later deploy to the server.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  In early release versions of [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)], you had to install additional components from Revolution Analytics, [!INCLUDE[rsql_rre-noversion](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_rre-noversion_md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[rsql_rro-noversion](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_rro-noversion_md.md)] These downloads are prerequisites for using [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)]. In [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] Release Candidate 2, all components are installed for you as part of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] setup.  
  
## How to Use R Services (In-Database)  
 After you have installed and configured the server components for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)], you will be able to execute R code against your [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] data by using [!INCLUDE[tsql](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/tsql_md.md)] in system stored procedures. By wrapping your R code in  stored procedures, you can easily return predictions and plots generated by the R code to applications.  
  
 By using [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] as the basis for solution development, R developers and data scientists can more easily share their solutions and analyses, but can continue to explore data, experiment, and build models using their favorite R tools. Deployment of R code into production is easy; just save the model to a  [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] table, and use [!INCLUDE[tsql](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/tsql_md.md)] to call more R code for scoring, retraining, and reporting.  
  
 This combination of flexibility and programmability provides the best of the R and SQL worlds. You can use R for statistical computations that are difficult to implement using SQL, but leverage the power of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] to achieve maximum performance, using features such as the in-memory database engine and columnstore indexes.  
  
-   **Develop**  
  
     Data scientists typically use R to explore data and build predictive models from their workstation using an R IDE of their choosing. The data scientist iterates testing and tuning until a good predictive model is achieved. [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] client components provide the data scientists with all the tools he or she needs to experiment and develop. These tools include the R runtime, the Intel math kernel library to boost the performance of standard R operations, and  and a set of enhanced R packages that support executing R code in [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)].  
  
     Data scientists can connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] and bring the data to the client for local analysis, as usual. However, a better solution is to use the [ScaleR](http://www.revolutionanalytics.com/revolution-r-enterprise-scaler) packages to push computations to the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] computer, avoiding costly and insecure data movement.  
  
     To develop R solutions, the data scientists can use any Windows-based IDE that supports R, including [R Tools for Visual Studio](http://blog.revolutionanalytics.com/2016/01/r-coming-to-visual-studio.html) or RStudio.  
  
     For more information, see [Data Exploration and Predictive Modeling with R](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Data-Exploration-and-Predictive-Modeling-with-R.md).  
  
-   **Optimize**  
  
     When analyzing large datasets with R, data scientists often run into performance and scale issues, because the common runtime implementation is single-threaded and can accommodate only those data sets that fit into the available memory on the local computer. To get better performance and work with more data, the data scientist can use the enhanced package APIs that are provided as part of [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)]. For example, the **RevoScaleR** package contains implementations of some of the most popular R functions, redesigned to provide parallelism and scale. The package also includes functions that further boost  performance and scale by pushing computations to the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)]computer, which typically has far greater memory and computational power.  
  
     For more information, see [Data Exploration and Predictive Modeling with R](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Data-Exploration-and-Predictive-Modeling-with-R.md).  
  
-   **Deploy**  
  
     After the R script or model is ready for production use, the data scientist or a database developer  can embed the code or model in system stored procedures and invoke the saved code from an application. Storing and running R from [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] has many benefits: you can use the convenient [!INCLUDE[tsql](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/tsql_md.md)] interface, and all computations take place in the database, avoiding unnecessary data movement. You can use [!INCLUDE[tsql](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/tsql_md.md)] to generate scores from a predictive model in production, or return plots generated by R and present them in an application such as [!INCLUDE[ssRSnoversion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssRSnoversion_md.md)].  
  
     To further optimize the R code embedded in system stored procedures, we recommend that you use the [ScaleR](http://www.revolutionanalytics.com/revolution-r-enterprise-scaler) package APIs, which can operate over larger datasets. These packages support in-database execution, for multi-threaded, multi-core, multi-process computation.  
  
     When you need to deploy R code to production, [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] provides the best of the R and SQL worlds. You can use R for statistical computations that are difficult to implement using SQL, but leverage the power of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] to achieve maximum performance, using features such as the in-memory database engine and columnstore indexes.  
  
     For more information, see [Operationalizing Your R Code](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Operationalizing-Your-R-Code.md).  
  
-   **Manage and monitor**  
  
     [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] uses a new extensibility architecture that keeps your database engine secure and isolates R sessions. You also have control over the users who can execute R scripts, and you can specify which databases can be accessed by R code. You can control the amount of resources allocated to the R runtime, to prevent massive computations from jeopardizing the overall server performance.  
  
     When R jobs are run in [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)], you can also control and audit the data used by analysts, or schedule jobs and author workflows containing R scripts, just like you would with other system stored procedures.  
  
     For more information, see [Managing and Monitoring R Solutions](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Managing-and-Monitoring-R-Solutions.md)  
  
-   **Integrate**  
  
     No longer do you have to spend your IT budget getting your enterprise tools to work with some external R runtime environment. You can work in the familiar environment of [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)], and develop integrated workflows and reporting solutions using [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssISnoversion_md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssRSnoversion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssRSnoversion_md.md)].  
  
     For more information, see [Creating Workflows that Use R in SQL Server](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Creating-Workflows-that-Use-R-in-SQL-Server.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [Getting Started with SQL Server R Services](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Getting-Started-with-SQL-Server-R-Services.md)   
 [Getting Started with Microsoft R Server (Standalone)](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Getting-Started-with-Microsoft-R-Server--Standalone-.md)