---
title: "Upgrade and Installation FAQ (SQL Server R Services)"
ms.custom: 
  - SQL2016_New_Updated
ms.date: 2016-05-31
ms.prod: sql-server-2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - r-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 001e66b9-6c3f-41b3-81b7-46541e15f9ea
caps.latest.revision: 29
manager: paulettm
---
# Upgrade and Installation FAQ (SQL Server R Services)
This topic provides answers to common questions about installation, and questions about upgrades from  preview releases of [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)].  
  
 If you are installing [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] for the first time,  follow the procedures for setting up [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] and the R components  as described here: [Set up SQL Server R Services (In-Database)](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Set-up-SQL-Server-R-Services--In-Database-.md).  
  
## Changes in setup  
 The process for setup of [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] has become much simpler; you can install all related features, including the R  components, by using the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] Setup Wizard. You can also install the R packages and tools on a data science workstation (no [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] required) to connect to [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] and deploy R solutions.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Installation of early preview versions is no longer supported. We recommend that you install RC2 or later.  
>   
>  If you installed a previous CTP version and want to upgrade, you must first uninstall any R components that were used by previous versions. This includes other versions of the Revolution Analytics tools.  
  
## Setup of SQL Server R Services not available in a failover cluster  
 Currently, it is not possible to install [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] on a failover cluster.  
  
 However, you can install [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] on a standalone computer that uses Always On and is part of an availability group. For more information about using R Services in an Always On availability group, see [Always On Availability Groups: Interoperability (SQL Server)](../Topic/Always%20On%20Availability%20Groups:%20Interoperability%20\(SQL%20Server\).md).  
  
## SQLRUsers group requires ALLOW LOG ON LOCALLY permission  
 In an environment where the Windows group for R users (**SQLRUsers**) does not have this permission, you might see the following errors:  
  
-   When trying to run R scripts:  
  
     *Unable to launch runtime for 'R' script. Please check the configuration of the 'R' runtime.*  
  
     *An external script error occurred. Unable to launch the runtime.*  
  
-   Errors generated by the [!INCLUDE[rsql_launchpad](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_launchpad_md.md)] service:  
  
     *Failed to initialize the launcher RLauncher.dll*  
  
     *No launcher dlls were registered!*  
  
-   Security logs indicate that the account, NT SERVICE\MSSQLLAUNCHPAD was unable to log in.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  This issue will be fixed in a future release. As a workaround, if you encounter this issue, grant the user group **SQLRUsers** the permission **ALLOW LOG ON LOCALLY**.  
  
## After running setup, R Services is still not enabled  
 The feature that supports running external scripts is disabled by default, even if installed. This is by design, for surface area reduction.  
  
 To enable R scripts, an administrator can run the following statement in [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)]:  
  
1.  On the [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] instance where you want to use R, run this statement.  
  
    ```  
    sp_configure 'external scripts enabled',1'  
    reconfigure with override  
    ```  
  
2.  Restart the instance.  
  
3.  After the instance has restarted, open **SQL Server Configuration Manager** or the **Services** panel and verify that the [!INCLUDE[rsql_launchpad](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_launchpad_md.md)] service is running.  
  
## New license agreement for R components required for unattended installs  
 If you use the command line to upgrade an instance of [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] that already has [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] installed, you must modify the command line to use the new license agreement parameter, */IACCEPTROPENLICENSEAGREEMENT*. Failure to use the correct argument can cause [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] setup to fail.  
  
## Uninstalling previous versions of R components  
 It is not possible to upgrade from an early pre-release version of [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] (CTP 3) to later versions (CTP 3.1, CTP 3.2,  CTP 3.3, or RC1, RC2, or RC3)  without losing references to R packages and runtime tools, which effectively  breaks R integration.  
  
 We recommend that you uninstall all previous R components, including these releases:  
  
-   Microsoft R Open, Revolution R Open (all versions)  
  
-   Revolution R Enterprise (all versions)  
  
 Follow these steps to remove previous installations and install a newer version:  
  
1.  Remove references to the R extensions by running the script RegisterRExt.exe, using the `/UNINSTALL` option.  
  
     For example, if you were using the default instance, run this command:  
  
    ```  
    RegisterRExt.exe /UNINSTALL  
    ```  
  
     If you enabled R integration on a named instance, specify the instance name after */instance:*  
  
    ```  
    RegisterRExt.exe /UNINSTALL /INSTANCE:<instancename>   
    ```  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    >  The default location for this script changed after CTP 3.3. If you did not completely remove old components and run the old version of the script, you might get an error. For RC0, the location of the script file is `C:\Program Files\Microsoft\MRO-for-RRE\8.0\R-3.2.2\library\RevoScaleR\rxLibs\x64`  
    >   
    >  If you have CTP 3.1, 3.2, or 3.3, you might also need to download an updated version of the post-installation configuration script from the [Microsoft Download Center](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=723194). The updated script supports de-registration of older components.  
    > Click the link and select **Save As** to save the script to a local folder. Rename the existing script, and then copy the new script into the folder where the script will be executed.  
  
2.  Uninstall any previous versions of [!INCLUDE[rsql_rre-noversion](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_rre-noversion_md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[rsql_rro-noversion](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_rro-noversion_md.md)], in that order.  
  
    > [!IMPORTANT]  
    >  The order of uninstallation is important! You must uninstall [!INCLUDE[rsql_rre-noversion](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_rre-noversion_md.md)] first, and then uninstall [!INCLUDE[rsql_rro-noversion](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_rro-noversion_md.md)].  
    >   
    >  If you mistakenly uninstall R Open first and then get an error when trying to uninstall Revolution R Enterprise, one workaround is to reinstall Revolution R Open or Microsoft R Open, and then uninstall both components in the correct order.  
  
3.  Upgrade any previous release of [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)].  
  
     To use [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)], install RC2 or later.  
  
4.  Enable R Services.  
  
     No additional components are needed; the R packages and connectivity packages are installed by [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] setup. However, you must still run the following statement on the [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] instance to enable external scripts, and then restart the instance.  
  
## Cannot uninstall older versions of R  
 Older versions of Revolution R Open, Microsoft R Open, or Revolution R Enterprise might not be completely removed by the  uninstall process.  
  
 If you have problems removing an older version, you can also edit the registry to remove related keys.  
  
 Open the Windows Registry, and locate this key: `HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall`.  
  
 Delete any of the following entries, if present, and if the key contains only a single value `sEstimatedSize2`:  
  
-   E0B2C29E-B8FC-490B-A043-2CAE75634972        (for 8.0.2)  
  
-   46695879-954E-4072-9D32-1CC84D4158F4        (for 8.0.1)  
  
-   2DF16DF8-A2DB-4EC6-808B-CB5A302DA91B        (for 8.0.0)  
  
-   5A2A1571-B8CD-4AAF-9303-8DF463DABE5A        (for 7.5.0)  
  
## Launchpad service cannot be started  
 To install R Services (In-Database), the drive where the feature is installed must support creation of short file names using the 8dot3 notation.  (An 8.3 filename is also called a short filename and is used for compatibility with older versions of Microsoft Windows prior or as an alternate filename to the long filename.) If the volume where you are installing R Services does not support the short filenames, the processes that launch R from SQL Server might not be able to locate the correct executable and the [!INCLUDE[rsql_launchpad](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/includes/rsql_launchpad_md.md)] will not start.  
  
 As a workaround, you should enable the 8dot3 notation on the volume and reinstall.  
  
 If that is not possible, edit the configuration file to use the long file name. For example, if the configuration file uses the short file path "<drive\>:\MSSQL13.SQLSERVER", edit the setting to use the full file path "<drive\>:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL13.MSSQLSERVER"  
  
## Side by side installation not supported  
 Do not create a side-by-side installation using another version of R or other releases from Revolution Analytics.  
  
## Remote execution via ODBC requires additional permissions  
 If you use a data science workstation and connect to the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] computer to run R commands using the **RevoScaleR** functions, you might get an error when using ODBC calls that write data to the server. The reasons is that the default user group that was created by setup for running R tasks does not have write permissions on the server.  
  
 As a workaround, you create a new login on the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] instance by using this statement:  
  
```  
CREATE LOGIN [%COMPUTERNAME%\SQLRUserGroup] FROM WINDOWS   
```  
  
## Setting up SQL Server R Services in an Azure Virtual Machine  
 If you install [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] on an Azure virtual machine by using one of the images that includes [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)], some additional steps are needed.  
  
-   **Install [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)]**  
  
     R Services (In-Database) is not installed by default with [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)]. Therefore, after you have created the Azure virtual machine, you will need to re-run [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] setup, add the feature on the **Server Configuration** page of the wizard, and restart the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] instance.  
  
-   **Unblock firewall**  
  
     You will also need to make some additional changes to the firewall on the virtual machine to ensure that you can access the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] instance from a remote data science client.  
  
     For example, you might not be able to use compute contexts that require use of the virtual machine's workspace. The reason is that, by default, the firewall on the Azure virtual machine includes a rule that blocks network access for local R user accounts.  
  
     As a workaround, on the virtual machine, open Windows Firewall with Advanced Security, select **Outbound Rules**, and disable the following rule:  
  
     `Block network access for R local user accounts in SQL Server instance MSSQLSERVER`  
  
-   **Install required network protocols**  
  
     Currently, [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] uses the Named Pipes protocol for connections between the client and server computers. If Named Pipes is not enabled, you must install and enable it on both the Azure virtual machine and any data science clients that connect tothe server.  
  
## Errors during setup because R components cannot be installed  
 When you install R Services (In-Database) by using [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] setup, when you click **Accept** on the page containing the Microsoft R Open license terms, setup should locate the components and begin installation when other components are installed. However, in these cases, the components might fail to install:  
  
-   You are performing an offline install and the components cannot be downloaded.  
  
     [Installing R Components without Internet Access](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Installing-R-Components-without-Internet-Access.md)  
  
-   You are using the option to check for updates and the update service returns an error because it cannot find the correct version of the component.  
  
     This is a known issue that has been fixed in RC3.  
  
-   A previous version of the R components is detected, preventing installation. You might get this error even if you removed previously installed R components.  
  
     To completely remove R components installed between CTP3 and RC1, you must do the following:  
  
    1.  Run the script RegisterRExt.exe with the /UNINSTALL argument to remove references to the components.  
  
    2.  Uninstall Revolution Analytics Enterprise.  
  
    3.  Uninstall Microsoft R Open or Revolution R Open.  
  
## Upgrade of R Server (Standalone) to RC3 requires uninstall of RC2  
 If you previously installed Microsoft R Server (Standalone) in [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] (available beginning with RC2) and want to upgrade to RC3, you must first uninstall using [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] RC2 setup, and then reinstall using [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] RC3 setup.  
  
1.  Uninstall R Server (Standalone) for [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] RC2 using [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] setup.  
  
2.  Upgrade [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] to RC3 and select the option to install R Services (In-Database). This upgrades the instance of [!INCLUDE[rsql_productname](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/rsql_productname_md.md)] to RC3; no additional configuration is necessary.  
  
3.  Run [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../Topics/TopicNameContainA/includes/ssCurrent_md.md)] setup for RC3 once more, and install Microsoft R Server (Standalone).  
  
## See Also  
 [Getting Started with SQL Server R Services](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Getting-Started-with-SQL-Server-R-Services.md)   
 [Getting Started with Microsoft R Server (Standalone)](../../Topics/TopicNameNotContainA/Getting-Started-with-Microsoft-R-Server--Standalone-.md)