---
title: Use RAW Mode with FOR XML
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: sql-server-2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - dbe-xml
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 02c1bc0b-760c-4589-9ab1-6927c6d9c734
---
# Use RAW Mode with FOR XML
  RAW mode transforms each row in the query result set into an XML element that has the generic identifier \<row\>, or the optionally provided element name. By default, each column value in the rowset that is not NULL is mapped to an attribute of the \<row\> element. If the ELEMENTS directive is added to the FOR XML clause, each column value is mapped to a subelement of the \<row\> element. Together with the ELEMENTS directive, you can optionally specify the XSINIL option to map NULL column values in the result set to an element that has the attribute, xsi:nil\=`"`true`"`.  
  
 You can request a schema for the resulting XML. Specifying the XMLDATA option returns an in\-line XDR schema. Specifying the XMLSCHEMA option returns an in\-line XSD schema. The schema appears at the start of the data. In the result, the schema namespace reference is repeated for every top\-level element.  
  
 The BINARY BASE64 option must be specified in the FOR XML clause to return the binary data in base64\-encoded format. In RAW mode, retrieving binary data without specifying the BINARY BASE64 option will result in an error.  
  
## In This Section  
 This section contains the following examples:  
  
-   [Example: Retrieving Product Model Information as XML](../Topic/Example:%20Retrieving%20Product%20Model%20Information%20as%20XML.md)  
  
-   [Example: Specifying XSINIL with the ELEMENTS Directive](../Topic/Example:%20Specifying%20XSINIL%20with%20the%20ELEMENTS%20Directive.md)  
  
-   [Example: Requesting Schemas as Results with the XMLDATA and XMLSCHEMA Options](../Topic/Example:%20Requesting%20Schemas%20as%20Results%20with%20the%20XMLDATA%20and%20XMLSCHEMA%20Options.md)  
  
-   [Example: Retrieving Binary Data](../Topic/Example:%20Retrieving%20Binary%20Data.md)  
  
-   [Example: Renaming the &#60;row&#62; Element](../Topic/Example:%20Renaming%20the%20%3Crow%3E%20Element.md)  
  
-   [Example: Specifying a Root Element for the XML Generated by FOR XML](../Topic/Example:%20Specifying%20a%20Root%20Element%20for%20the%20XML%20Generated%20by%20FOR%20XML.md)  
  
-   [Example: Querying XMLType Columns](../Topic/Example:%20Querying%20XMLType%20Columns.md)  
  
## See Also  
 [Add Namespaces to Queries with WITH XMLNAMESPACES](../../Topics\TopicNameNotContainA/Add-Namespaces-to-Queries-with-WITH-XMLNAMESPACES.md)   
 [Use AUTO Mode with FOR XML](../../Topics\TopicNameNotContainA/Use-AUTO-Mode-with-FOR-XML.md)   
 [Use EXPLICIT Mode with FOR XML](../../Topics\TopicNameNotContainA/Use-EXPLICIT-Mode-with-FOR-XML.md)   
 [Use PATH Mode with FOR XML](../../Topics\TopicNameNotContainA/Use-PATH-Mode-with-FOR-XML.md)   
 [SELECT &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../Topic/SELECT%20\(Transact-SQL\).md)   
 [FOR XML &#40;SQL Server&#41;](../Topic/FOR%20XML%20\(SQL%20Server\).md)  
  
  