---
title: "-Zc:implicitNoexcept (Implicit Exception Specifiers)"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
H1: "/Zc:implicitNoexcept (Implicit Exception Specifiers)"
f1_keywords: 
  - "/Zc:implicitNoexcept"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "/Zc:implicitNoexcept"
  - "Zc:implicitNoexcept"
  - "-Zc:implicitNoexcept"
ms.assetid: 71807652-6f9d-436b-899e-f52daa6f500b
caps.latest.revision: 10
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# -Zc:implicitNoexcept (Implicit Exception Specifiers)
When the **/Zc:implicitNoexcept** option is specified, the compiler adds an implicit [noexcept](../vs140/noexcept--c---.md) exception specifier to compiler-defined special member functions and to user-defined destructors and deallocators. By default, **/Zc:implicitNoexcept** is enabled to conform to the ISO C++11 standard. Turning this option off disables implicit <CodeContentPlaceHolder>2\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> on user-defined destructors and dealloacators and compiler-defined special member functions.  
  
## Syntax  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>0\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
#### Parameters  
  
## Remarks  
 By default, and if **/Zc:implicitNoexcept** is specified, the compiler follows section 15.4 of the ISO C++11 standard and implicitly adds a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>3\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> exception specifier to each implicitly-declared or explicitly defaulted special member function—the default constructor, copy constructor, move constructor, destructor, copy assignment operator, or move assignment operator—and each user-defined destructor or deallocator function. A user-defined deallocator has an implicit <CodeContentPlaceHolder>4\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> exception specifier. For user-defined destructors, the implicit exception specifier is <CodeContentPlaceHolder>5\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> unless a contained member class or base class has a destructor that is not <CodeContentPlaceHolder>6\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>. For compiler-generated special member functions, if any function directly invoked by this function is effectively <CodeContentPlaceHolder>7\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>, the implicit exception specifier is <CodeContentPlaceHolder>8\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>. Otherwise, the implicit exception specifier is <CodeContentPlaceHolder>9\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>.  
  
 The compiler does not generate an implicit exception specifier for functions declared by using explicit <CodeContentPlaceHolder>10\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> or <CodeContentPlaceHolder>11\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> specifiers or a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>12\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> attribute.  
  
 If the option is disabled by specifying **/Zc:implicitNoexcept-**, no implicit exception specifiers are generated by the compiler. This behavior is the same as Visual Studio 2013, where destructors and deallocators that did not have exception specifiers could have <CodeContentPlaceHolder>13\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> statements. By default, and when **/Zc:implicitNoexcept** is specified, if a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>14\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> statement is encountered at run time in a function with an implicit <CodeContentPlaceHolder>15\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> specifier, it causes an immediate invocation of <CodeContentPlaceHolder>16\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>, and normal unwinding behavior for exception handlers is not guaranteed. To help identify this situation, the compiler generates [Compiler Warning C4297](../vs140/compiler-warning--level-1--c4297.md). If the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>17\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> is intentional, we recommend you change your function declaration to have an explicit <CodeContentPlaceHolder>18\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> specifier instead of using **/Zc:implicitNoexcept-**.  
  
 This sample shows how a user-defined destructor that has no explicit exception specifier behaves when the **/Zc:implicitNoexcept** option is set or disabled. To show the behavior when set, compile by using <CodeContentPlaceHolder>19\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>. To show the behavior when disabled, compile by using <CodeContentPlaceHolder>20\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>.  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>1\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 When compiled by using the default setting **/Zc:implicitNoexcept**, the sample generates this output:  
  
 **~B Exception caught**  
**Unexpected throw caused std::terminate**  
**Exit returning EXIT_FAILURE** When compiled by using the setting **/Zc:implicitNoexcept-**, the sample generates this output:  
  
 **~B Exception caught**  
**~D Exception caught**  
**Exit returning EXIT_SUCCESS** For more information about conformance issues in Visual C++, see [Nonstandard Behavior](../vs140/nonstandard-behavior.md).  
  
### To set this compiler option in the Visual Studio development environment  
  
1.  Open the project's **Property Pages** dialog box. For details, see [Working with Project Properties](../vs140/working-with-project-properties.md).  
  
2.  Select the **C/C++** folder.  
  
3.  Select the **Command Line** property page.  
  
4.  Modify the **Additional Options** property to include **/Zc:implicitNoexcept** or **/Zc:implicitNoexcept-** and then choose **OK**.  
  
## See Also  
 [/Zc (Conformance)](../vs140/-zc--conformance-.md)   
 [noexcept (C++)](../vs140/noexcept--c---.md)   
 [Exception Specifications](../vs140/exception-specifications--throw---c---.md)   
 [std::terminate](../vs140/terminate---exception--.md)