---
title: ".NET Memory Data Views"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 09/22/2016
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev14
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - vs-ide-debug
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - .NET memory profiling method views
  - profiling tools,.NET memory profiling views
ms.assetid: 79184d8e-769b-4ace-be2b-521147772081
caps.latest.revision: 14
translation.priority.ht: 
  - de-de
  - ja-jp
---
# .NET Memory Data Views
This section contains reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that contains .NET memory profiling data.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Summary View - Profiler .NET Memory Data](../vs140/summary-view---.net-memory-data.md)  
 Lists the functions and types that allocated the most memory.  
  
 [Allocations View - Profiler .NET Memory Data](../vs140/.net-memory-allocations-view.md)  
 Lists the types that were allocated in the profiling run, and the call trees (execution paths) that resulted in the allocation of the type.  
  
 [Object Lifetime View - Profiler .NET Memory Data](../vs140/object-lifetime-view.md)  
 Lists the types that were allocated in the profiling run, and the number of instances, size in bytes, and the garbage collection generation of the type.  
  
 [Call Tree View - Profiler .NET Memory Sampling Data](../vs140/call-tree-view---.net-memory-sampling-data.md)  
 Displays a hierarchical tree that represents the execution paths and memory allocation data of functions in the profiling run.  
  
 [Modules View - Profiler .NET Memory Sampling Data](../vs140/modules-view---.net-memory-sampling-data.md)  
 Organizes .NET memory allocation data by module, and lists the functions, source code lines, and instructions that were executing when memory was allocated.  
  
 [Caller / Callee View - Profiler .NET Memory Sampling Data](../vs140/caller-callee-view---.net-memory-sampling-data.md)  
 Lists memory allocation data for a selected function, the functions that called the selected function, and the functions that were called by the selected function.  
  
 [Functions View - Profiler .NET Memory Sampling Data](../vs140/functions-view---.net-memory-sampling-data.md)  
 Lists memory allocation data for the functions in the profiling run.  
  
 [Lines View - Profiler .NET Memory Sampling Data](../vs140/lines-view---.net-memory-sampling-data.md)  
 Lists memory allocation data for the source code lines of functions in the profiling run.  
  
 [Instruction Pointers (IPs) View - Profiler .NET Memory Sampling Data](../vs140/instruction-pointers--ips--view---.net-memory-sampling-data.md)  
 Lists memory allocation data for the instructions of functions in the profiling run.  
  
 [Call Tree View - Profiler .NET Memory Instrumentation Data](../vs140/call-tree-view---.net-memory-instrumentation-data.md)  
 Displays a hierarchical tree that represents the execution paths, memory allocation data, and detailed timing data for instrumented functions in the profiling run.  
  
 [Modules View - Profiler .NET Memory Instrumentation Data](../vs140/modules-view---.net-memory-instrumentation-data.md)  
 Organizes profiling data by module, and lists the functions, memory allocation data, and detailed timing information for the module.  
  
 [Caller / Callee View - Profiler .NET Memory Instrumentation Data](../vs140/caller-callee-view---net-memory-instrumentation-data.md)  
 Lists memory allocation data and detailed timing information for a selected instrumented function, the functions that called the selected function, and the functions that were called by the selected function.  
  
 [Functions View - Profiler .NET Memory Instrumentation Data](../vs140/functions-view---.net-memory-instrumentation-data.md)  
 Lists memory allocation data for the instrumented functions in the profiling run.  
  
## Reference  
 [Function Details View](../vs140/function-details-view.md)  
 Displays a graphical chart of the relationship between a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.  
  
 [Process View](../vs140/process-view.md)  
 Lists process and thread start and end times.  
  
 [Marks View](../vs140/marks-view.md)  
 Lists ETW and sampling events that were inserted into a profiling data file.  
  
## Related Sections  
 [Profiler Sampling Method Data Views](../vs140/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [Profiler Instrumentation Method Data Views](../vs140/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.