---
title: "2.7.1 threadprivate Directive"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
ms.assetid: 08e0b70f-5359-4607-b0ca-38c2d570d7b3
caps.latest.revision: 11
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# 2.7.1 threadprivate Directive
The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>2\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive makes the named file-scope, namespace-scope, or static block-scope variables specified in the *variable-list* private to a thread. *variable-list* is a comma-separated list of variables that do not have an incomplete type. The syntax of the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>3\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive is as follows:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>0\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 Each copy of a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>4\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> variable is initialized once, at an unspecified point in the program prior to the first reference to that copy, and in the usual manner (i.e., as the master copy would be initialized in a serial execution of the program). Note that if an object is referenced in an explicit initializer of a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>5\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> variable, and the value of the object is modified prior to the first reference to a copy of the variable, then the behavior is unspecified.  
  
 As with any private variable, a thread must not reference another thread's copy of a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>6\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> object. During serial regions and master regions of the program, references will be to the master thread's copy of the object.  
  
 After the first parallel region executes, the data in the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>7\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> objects is  guaranteed to persist only if the dynamic threads mechanism has been disabled and if the number of threads remains unchanged for all parallel regions.  
  
 The restrictions to the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>8\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive are as follows:  
  
-   A <CodeContentPlaceHolder>9\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive for file-scope or namespace-scope variables must appear outside any definition or declaration, and must lexically precede all references to any of the variables in its list.  
  
-   Each variable in the *variable-list* of a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>10\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive at file or namespace scope must refer to a variable declaration at file or namespace scope that lexically precedes the directive.  
  
-   A <CodeContentPlaceHolder>11\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive for static block-scope variables must appear in the scope of the variable and not in a nested scope. The directive must lexically precede all references to any of the variables in its list.  
  
-   Each variable in the *variable-list* of a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>12\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive in block scope must refer to a variable declaration in the same scope that lexically precedes the directive. The variable declaration must use the static storage-class specifier.  
  
-   If a variable is specified in a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>13\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive in one translation unit, it must be specified in a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>14\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> directive in every translation unit in which it is declared.  
  
-   A <CodeContentPlaceHolder>15\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> variable must not appear in any clause except the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>16\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>, <CodeContentPlaceHolder>17\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>, <CodeContentPlaceHolder>18\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>, <CodeContentPlaceHolder>19\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>, or the **if** clause.  
  
-   The address of a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>20\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> variable is not an address constant.  
  
-   A <CodeContentPlaceHolder>21\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> variable must not have an incomplete type or a reference type.  
  
-   A <CodeContentPlaceHolder>22\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> variable with non-POD class type must have an accessible, unambiguous copy constructor if it is declared with an explicit initializer.  
  
 The following example illustrates how modifying a variable that appears in an initializer can cause unspecified behavior, and also how to avoid this problem by using an auxiliary object and a copy-constructor.  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>1\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
## Cross References:  
  
-   Dynamic threads, see [Section 3.1.7](../vs140/3.1.7-omp_set_dynamic-function.md) on page 39.  
  
-   <CodeContentPlaceHolder>23\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> environment variable, see [Section 4.3](../vs140/4.3-omp_dynamic.md) on page 49.