---
title: "3.2 Lock Functions"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
ms.assetid: 0ec855c6-55a9-49d7-bee4-5edae6e86a1b
caps.latest.revision: 10
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# 3.2 Lock Functions
The functions described in this section manipulate locks used for synchronization.  
  
 For the following functions, the lock variable must have type **omp_lock_t**. This variable must only be accessed through these functions. All lock functions require an argument that has a pointer to **omp_lock_t** type.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>0\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function initializes a simple lock.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>1\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function removes a simple lock.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>2\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function waits until a simple lock is available.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>3\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function releases a simple lock.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>4\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function tests a simple lock.  
  
 For the following functions, the lock variable must have type **omp_nest_lock_t**.  This variable must only be accessed through these functions. All nestable lock functions require an argument that has a pointer to **omp_nest_lock_t** type.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>5\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function initializes a nestable lock.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>6\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function removes a nestable lock.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>7\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function waits until a nestable lock is available.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>8\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function releases a nestable lock.  
  
-   The <CodeContentPlaceHolder>9\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function tests a nestable lock.  
  
 The OpenMP lock functions access the lock variable in such a way that they always read and update the most current value of the lock variable. Therefore, it is not necessary for an OpenMP program to include explicit **flush** directives to ensure that the lock variable's value is consistent among different threads. (There may be a need for **flush** directives to make the values of other variables consistent.)