---
title: "AfxRegisterWndClass"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-cpp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "AFXWIN/AfxRegisterWndClass"
  - "AfxRegisterWndClass"
dev_langs: 
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "AfxRegisterWndClass function"
ms.assetid: 62c7d4b1-7a29-4abb-86f7-dec541659db0
caps.latest.revision: 15
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# AfxRegisterWndClass
Allows you to register your own window classes.  
  
## Syntax  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>0\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
#### Parameters  
 *nClassStyle*  
 Specifies the Windows class style or combination of styles, created by using the bitwise-OR (**&#124;**) operator, for the window class. For a list of class styles, see the [WNDCLASS](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms633576) structure in the [!INCLUDE[winSDK](../vs140/includes/winsdk_md.md)]. If **NULL**, the defaults will be set as follows:  
  
-   Sets the mouse style to **CS_DBLCLKS**, which sends double-click messages to the window procedure when the user double-clicks the mouse.  
  
-   Sets the arrow cursor style to the Windows standard **IDC_ARROW**.  
  
-   Sets the background brush to **NULL**, so the window will not erase its background.  
  
-   Sets the icon to the standard, waving-flag Windows logo icon.  
  
 <CodeContentPlaceHolder>1\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 Specifies a handle to the cursor resource to be installed in each window created from the window class. If you use the default of **0**, you will get the standard **IDC_ARROW** cursor.  
  
 *hbrBackground*  
 Specifies a handle to the brush resource to be installed in each window created from the window class. If you use the default of **0**, you will have a **NULL** background brush, and your window will, by default, not erase its background while processing [WM_ERASEBKGND](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms648055).  
  
 <CodeContentPlaceHolder>2\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 Specifies a handle to the icon resource to be installed in each window created from the window class. If you use the default of **0**, you will get the standard, waving-flag Windows logo icon.  
  
## Return Value  
 A null-terminated string containing the class name. You can pass this class name to the **Create** member function in <CodeContentPlaceHolder>3\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> or other **CWnd-**derived classes to create a window. The name is generated by the Microsoft Foundation Class Library.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  The return value is a pointer to a static buffer. To save this string, assign it to a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>4\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> variable.  
  
## Remarks  
 The Microsoft Foundation Class Library automatically registers several standard window classes for you. Call this function if you want to register your own window classes.  
  
 The name registered for a class by <CodeContentPlaceHolder>5\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> depends solely on the parameters. If you call <CodeContentPlaceHolder>6\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> multiple times with identical parameters, it only registers a class on the first call. Subsequent calls to <CodeContentPlaceHolder>7\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> with identical parameters simply return the already-registered classname.  
  
 If you call <CodeContentPlaceHolder>8\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> for multiple CWnd-derived classes with identical parameters, instead of getting a separate window class for each class, each class shares the same window class. This can cause problems if the **CS_CLASSDC** class style is used. Instead of multiple **CS_CLASSDC** window classes, you end up with one **CS_CLASSDC** window class, and all C++ windows that use that class share the same DC. To avoid this problem, call [AfxRegisterClass](../vs140/afxregisterclass.md) to register the class.  
  
 Refer to Technical Note [TN001: Window Class Registration](../vs140/tn001--window-class-registration.md) for more information on window class registration and the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>9\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> function.  
  
## Example  
 [!code[NVC_MFCWindowing#134](../vs140/codesnippet/CPP/afxregisterwndclass_1.cpp)]  
  
## Requirements  
 **Header:** afxwin.h  
  
## See Also  
 [Macros and Globals](../vs140/mfc-macros-and-globals.md)   
 [CWnd::Create](../vs140/cwnd--create.md)   
 [CWnd::PreCreateWindow](../vs140/cwnd--precreatewindow.md)   
 [WNDCLASS](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms633576)   
 [AfxRegisterClass](../vs140/afxregisterclass.md)