---
title: "C28197"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/21/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-devops-test"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "C28197"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "C28197"
ms.assetid: b685f4c1-9bd1-4ca3-a2b6-6eb87877b5db
caps.latest.revision: 7
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# C28197
Warning C28197: Possibly leaking memory  
  
 This warning is reported for both memory and resource leaks when the resource is potentially aliased to another location.  
  
 The *pointer* points to allocated memory or to another allocated resource that was not explicitly freed. This warning is usually due to inadequate annotations on the called function, although inadequate annotations on the calling function can also make this more likely.  
  
 This warning can be reported on function exit if an input argument has a <CodeContentPlaceHolder>2\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> or <CodeContentPlaceHolder>3\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> annotation. This warning typically indicates either a valid leak or that a function called by the current function needs additional annotation.  
  
 In particular, the absence of the basic <CodeContentPlaceHolder>4\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> and <CodeContentPlaceHolder>5\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> annotations make this warning fairly likely, although the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>6\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> and <CodeContentPlaceHolder>7\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> annotations might be needed as well. A false positive is a likely result of a missing <CodeContentPlaceHolder>8\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> annotation.  
  
 Functions that take a pointer and alias it (thus avoiding a leak) should be annotated with <CodeContentPlaceHolder>9\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>. If you create a function that inserts an object into a global structure, or passes it to a system function that does that, you should add the <CodeContentPlaceHolder>10\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> annotation.  
  
 Functions that free memory should be annotated with <CodeContentPlaceHolder>11\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>. The major functions that free memory already have this annotation.  
  
## Example  
 The following code example generates this warning:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>0\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 The following code example avoids this warning:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>1\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>