---
title: "C6332"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-devops-test"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "C6332"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "C6332"
ms.assetid: 93d74b3f-4070-4b48-807e-52b1dfee1330
caps.latest.revision: 16
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# C6332
warning C6332: Invalid parameter: passing zero as the dwFreeType parameter to \<function> is not allowed. This results in the failure of this call  
  
 This warning indicates that an invalid parameter is being passed to VirtualFree or VirtualFreeEx. VirtualFree and VirtualFreeEx both reject a dwFreeType parameter of zero. The dwFreeType parameter can be either MEM_DECOMMIT or MEM_RELEASE. However, the values MEM_DECOMMIT and MEM_RELEASE may not be used together in the same call. Also, make sure that the return value of the VirtualFree function is not ignored.  
  
## Example  
 The following code generates this warning because an invalid parameter is passed to the VirtualFree function:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>0\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 To correct this warning, modify the call to the VirtualFree function as shown in the following code:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>1\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 The use of VirtualAlloc and VirtualFree have many pitfalls in terms of memory leaks and exceptions. To avoid these kinds of leaks and exception problems altogether, use the mechanisms that are provided by the C++ Standard Template Library (STL). These include [shared_ptr](../vs140/shared_ptr-class.md), [unique_ptr](../vs140/unique_ptr-class.md), and [vector](../vs140/-vector-.md). For more information, see [Smart Pointers (Modern C++)](../vs140/smart-pointers--modern-c---.md) and [Standard C++ Library Reference](../vs140/c---standard-library-reference.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [IHostMemoryManager::VirtualAlloc](assetId:///4dff3646-a050-4bd9-ac31-fe307e8637ec)   
 [IHostMemoryManager::VirtualFree](assetId:///1a436e89-eb28-4d15-bcf1-a072f86dbd99)