---
title: "CWnd::DoDataExchange"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 09/22/2016
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev14
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - devlang-cpp
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords: 
  - CWnd::DoDataExchange
  - CWnd.DoDataExchange
  - DoDataExchange
dev_langs: 
  - C++
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - CWnd class, overridables
  - DoDataExchange method
ms.assetid: 40b0821d-9e57-46ed-9522-b57b367ab08d
caps.latest.revision: 15
robots: noindex,nofollow
translation.priority.ht: 
  - de-de
  - ja-jp
---
# CWnd::DoDataExchange
Called by the framework to exchange and validate dialog data.  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
      virtual void DoDataExchange(  
   CDataExchange* pDX   
);  
```  
  
#### Parameters  
 `pDX`  
 A pointer to a `CDataExchange` object.  
  
## Remarks  
 Never call this function directly. It is called by the [UpdateData](../vs140/cwnd--updatedata.md) member function. Call `UpdateData` to initialize a dialog box's controls or retrieve data from a dialog box.  
  
 When you derive an application-specific dialog class from [CDialog](../vs140/cdialog-class.md), you need to override this member function if you wish to utilize the framework's automatic data exchange and validation. The Add Variable wizard will write an overridden version of this member function for you containing the desired "data map" of dialog data exchange (DDX) and validation (DDV) global function calls.  
  
 To automatically generate an overridden version of this member function, first create a dialog resource with the dialog editor, then derive an application-specific dialog class. Then use the Add Variable wizard to associate variables, data, and validation ranges with various controls in the new dialog box. The wizard then writes the overridden `DoDataExchange`, which contains a data map. The following is an example DDX/DDV code block generated by the Add Variable wizard:  
  
 [!code[NVC_MFCWindowing#90](../vs140/codesnippet/CPP/cwnd--dodataexchange_1.cpp)]
  
  
 The `DoDataExchange` overridden member function must precede the macro statements in your source file.  
  
 For more information on dialog data exchange and validation, see [Displaying and Manipulating Data in a Form](../vs140/displaying-and-manipulating-data-in-a-form.md) and [Dialog Data Exchange and Validation](../vs140/dialog-data-exchange-and-validation.md). For a description of the DDX_ and DDV_ macros generated by the Add Variable wizard, see [Technical Note 26](../vs140/tn026--ddx-and-ddv-routines.md).  
  
## Requirements  
 **Header:** afxwin.h  
  
## See Also  
 [CWnd Class](../vs140/cwnd-class.md)   
 [Hierarchy Chart](../vs140/hierarchy-chart.md)   
 [CWnd::UpdateData](../vs140/cwnd--updatedata.md)