---
title: "How to: List All Nodes in a Tree (C#)"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-csharp"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
dev_langs: 
  - "CSharp"
ms.assetid: 3e934371-f4c6-458b-9f6b-f9061b596f5b
caps.latest.revision: 7
---
# How to: List All Nodes in a Tree (C#)
Sometimes it is helpful to list all nodes in a tree. This can be useful when learning exactly how a method or property affects the tree. One approach to listing all nodes in a textual form is to generate an XPath expression that exactly and specifically identifies any node in the tree.  
  
 It is not particularly helpful to execute XPath expressions using [!INCLUDE[sqltecxlinq](../vs140/includes/sqltecxlinq_md.md)]. XPath expressions have poorer performance than [!INCLUDE[sqltecxlinq](../vs140/includes/sqltecxlinq_md.md)] queries, and [!INCLUDE[sqltecxlinq](../vs140/includes/sqltecxlinq_md.md)] queries are much more powerful. However, as a way to identify nodes in the XML tree, XPath works well.  
  
## Example  
 This example shows an function named <CodeContentPlaceHolder>4\</CodeContentPlaceHolder> that generates a specific XPath expression for any node in the XML tree. It generates appropriate XPath expressions even when nodes are in a namespace. The XPath expressions are generated by using namespace prefixes.  
  
 The example then creates a small XML tree that contains an example of several types of nodes. It then iterates through the descendant nodes and prints the XPath expression for each node.  
  
 You will notice that the XML declaration is not a node in the tree.  
  
 The following is an XML file that contains several types of nodes:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>0\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 The following is the list of nodes in the above XML tree, expressed as XPath expressions:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>1\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>2\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
 This example produces the following output:  
  
<CodeContentPlaceHolder>3\</CodeContentPlaceHolder>  
## See Also  
 [Advanced Query Techniques (LINQ to XML) (C#)](../vs140/advanced-query-techniques--linq-to-xml---csharp-.md)