---
title: "How to: Change the Build Output Directory"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-ide-general"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "output directory, changing"
ms.assetid: a8333c89-afb2-4b1d-b2e2-9146da852402
caps.latest.revision: 18
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# How to: Change the Build Output Directory
You can specify the location of output on a per-configuration basis (for debug, release, or both) generated by your project.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  If you have a **Setup** project see the note at the end of this article.  
  
## Changing the Build Output directory  
  
#### To change the build output directory  
  
1.  On the menu bar, choose **Project**, *Appname* **Properties**. You can also right-click the project node in the **Solution Explorer** and select **Properties**.  
  
2.  If you have a Visual Basic project, select the **Compile** tab. If you have a Visual C# project, select the **Build** tab. If you have a C++ project or a JavaScript project, select the **General** tab.  
  
3.  In the configuration drop-down at the top, choose the configuration whose output file location you want to change (debug, release, or all).  
  
     Find the output path entry (**Build output path** in Visual Basic, **Output Directory** in Visual C++, **Output Path** in JavaScript and C#). Specify a new build output directory relative to the project directory.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  In a Setup Project, the **Output file name** box changes only the location of the Setup.exe file, not the location of the project files. For more information, see **Build, Configuration Properties, Deployment Project Properties Dialog Box**.  
  
## See Also  
 [Build Pane, Project Designer (C#)](../vs140/build-page--project-designer--csharp-.md)   
 [General Property Page (Project)](../vs140/general-property-page--project-.md)   
 [Building in Visual Studio](../vs140/compiling-and-building-in-visual-studio.md)