---
title: "Instrumentation Method Data Views"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "09/22/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-ide-debug"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "profiling tools,instrumentation method views"
  - "instrumentation profiling method"
ms.assetid: 481f7579-f784-49ef-bb6c-2944e9d6ab42
caps.latest.revision: 14
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "ja-jp"
---
# Instrumentation Method Data Views
This section contains reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Summary View - Profiler Instrumentation Data](../vs140/summary-view---instrumentation-data.md)  
 Lists the functions that consumed the most time and the functions that did the most individual work.  
  
 [Call Tree View - Profiler Instrumentation Data](../vs140/call-tree-view---instrumentation-data.md)  
 Displays the execution paths of functions in a hierarchical tree.  
  
 [Modules View - Profiler Instrumentation Data](../vs140/modules-view---instrumentation-data.md)  
 Organizes profiling data by module, and lists profiling data for the functions in the module.  
  
 [Caller / Callee View - Profiler Instrumentation Data](../vs140/caller-callee-view---instrumentation-data.md)  
 Displays profiling data for the parent and child functions of a selected function.  
  
 [Functions View - Profiler Instrumentation Data](../vs140/functions-view---instrumentation-data.md)  
 Lists profiling data by function.  
  
## Reference  
 [Function Details View](../vs140/function-details-view.md)  
 Displays a graphical chart of the relationship between a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.  
  
 [Process View](../vs140/process-view.md)  
 Lists process start, end, and lifetime time for all processes that wer profiled.  
  
## Related Sections  
 [Profiler Sampling Method Data Views](../vs140/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [Profiler .NET Memory Data Views](../vs140/.net-memory-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that include .NET memory data.  
  
 [Contention Profiling Data Views](../vs140/resource-contention-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the thread contention method.  
  
## See Also  
 [Understanding Instrumentation Data Values in Profiling Tools](../vs140/understanding-instrumentation-data-values.md)